Difficulty: Hard

Tags: DFS

Need Review: False

Date Added: 2023-05-16

[LeetCode: 51. N-Queens](https://leetcode.com/problems/n-queens/)

[LintCode: 33 · N-Queens](https://lintcode.com/problem/33 )

## Description 

The n-queens puzzle is the problem of placing n queens on an n x n chessboard such that no two queens attack each other.

Given an integer n, return all distinct solutions to the n-queens puzzle. You may return the answer in any order.

Each solution contains a distinct board configuration of the n-queens' placement, where 'Q' and '.' both indicate a queen and an empty space, respectively.

 

Example 1:





Input: n = 4

Output: [[".Q..","...Q","Q...","..Q."],["..Q.","Q...","...Q",".Q.."]]

Explanation: There exist two distinct solutions to the 4-queens puzzle as shown above



Example 2:



Input: n = 1

Output: [["Q"]]



 

Constraints:



1 <= n <= 9



## Solution 
 ```python 
class Solution:
    def solveNQueens(self, n: int) -> List[List[str]]:
        results = []
        self.dfs(results, [], n) # result will be a list of columns, not rows information needed
        solution = self.print(results, n) 

        return solution

    def dfs(self, results, result, n):
        if len(result) == n:
            results.append(result[:])
            return
        nr = len(result)
        for nc in range(n):
            if not self.is_valid(result, nr, nc):
                continue
            result.append(nc)
            self.dfs(results, result, n)
            result.pop()
    
    def is_valid(self, result, nr, nc):
        for r, c in enumerate(result):
            if nc == c:
                return False
            if abs(r - nr) == abs(c - nc):
                return False
        return True

    def print(self, results, n):
        ans = []
        for result in results:
            ans.append([])
            for col in result:
                temp = ["." for _ in range(n)]
                temp[col] = "Q"
                ans[-1].append("".join(temp))
        return ans
 ``` 
## Notes
Important thing is understand result (not results) can be a list of only columns. 

Also know how to easily determine if two pieces are in diagonal positions.

Finally, the printing function can be a little tricky to write.