Difficulty: Hard

Tags: Two Pointers

Need Review: True

Date Added: 2023-01-15

[LeetCode: 76. Minimum Window Substring](https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-window-substring/)

[LintCode: 32 · Minimum Window Substring](https://lintcode.com/problem/32 )

## Description 

Given two strings s and t of lengths m and n respectively, return the minimum window substring of s such that every character in t (including duplicates) is included in the window. If there is no such substring, return the empty string "".

The testcases will be generated such that the answer is unique.

 

Example 1:



Input: s = "ADOBECODEBANC", t = "ABC"

Output: "BANC"

Explanation: The minimum window substring "BANC" includes 'A', 'B', and 'C' from string t.



Example 2:



Input: s = "a", t = "a"

Output: "a"

Explanation: The entire string s is the minimum window.



Example 3:



Input: s = "a", t = "aa"

Output: ""

Explanation: Both 'a's from t must be included in the window.

Since the largest window of s only has one 'a', return empty string.



 

Constraints:



m == s.length

n == t.length

1 <= m, n <= 105

s and t consist of uppercase and lowercase English letters.



 

Follow up: Could you find an algorithm that runs in O(m + n) time?

## Solution 
 ```python 
class Solution:
    def minWindow(self, s: str, t: str) -> str:
        source, target = s, t
        count = {}
        for c in target:
            count[c] = count.get(c, 0) + 1
        needed = len(count)
        res, start, end = float('inf'), -1, -1
        left = 0
        for right in range(len(source)):
            c = source[right]
            if c in count:
                count[c] -= 1
                if count[c] == 0:
                    needed -= 1
            while needed == 0:
                if right - left + 1 < res:
                    res, start, end = right - left + 1, left, right
                c = source[left]
                if c in count:
                    count[c] += 1
                    if count[c] == 1:
                        needed += 1
                left += 1
        return source[start:end+1] if start != -1 else ""
 ``` 
## Notes
Hard problem using two pointers. The key is use hash table store the count in target string, and calculate a "needed"
number so that we know when all the char is founded in the source substring. Remember, needed is -= 1 whenever a char is down to count 0, and += 1 if it's back to 1.
The reason we don't need to worry about duplicate char is because the needed is only returning how many different types of chars we have, not how many chars, so duplicate chars is handled
by -= 1 and += 1 previously mentioned. 

Also, right pointer moves first when still missing some chars; left moves when all chars are found and see how short the substring can get.