Difficulty: Medium

Tags: Topological Sort

Need Review: False

Date Added: 2023-04-21

[LeetCode: 210. Course Schedule II](https://leetcode.com/problems/course-schedule-ii/)

[LintCode: 616 · Course Schedule II](https://lintcode.com/problem/616 )

## Description 

There are a total of numCourses courses you have to take, labeled from 0 to numCourses - 1. You are given an array prerequisites where prerequisites[i] = [ai, bi] indicates that you must take course bi first if you want to take course ai.



For example, the pair [0, 1], indicates that to take course 0 you have to first take course 1.



Return the ordering of courses you should take to finish all courses. If there are many valid answers, return any of them. If it is impossible to finish all courses, return an empty array.

 

Example 1:



Input: numCourses = 2, prerequisites = [[1,0]]

Output: [0,1]

Explanation: There are a total of 2 courses to take. To take course 1 you should have finished course 0. So the correct course order is [0,1].



Example 2:



Input: numCourses = 4, prerequisites = [[1,0],[2,0],[3,1],[3,2]]

Output: [0,2,1,3]

Explanation: There are a total of 4 courses to take. To take course 3 you should have finished both courses 1 and 2. Both courses 1 and 2 should be taken after you finished course 0.

So one correct course order is [0,1,2,3]. Another correct ordering is [0,2,1,3].



Example 3:



Input: numCourses = 1, prerequisites = []

Output: [0]



 

Constraints:



1 <= numCourses <= 2000

0 <= prerequisites.length <= numCourses * (numCourses - 1)

prerequisites[i].length == 2

0 <= ai, bi < numCourses

ai != bi

All the pairs [ai, bi] are distinct.



## Solution 
 ```python 
from collections import deque
class Solution:
    def findOrder(self, numCourses: int, prerequisites: List[List[int]]) -> List[int]:
        results = []
        # Build DAG
        in_degree = {c: 0 for c in range(numCourses)}
        next_courses = {c: [] for c in range(numCourses)}
        # Update In-degree
        for post, pre in prerequisites:
            in_degree[post] += 1
            next_courses[pre].append(post)
        queue = deque([c for c in in_degree if in_degree[c] == 0])
        # BFS 0 In-degree course
        while queue:
            c = queue.popleft()
            for next_c in next_courses[c]:
                in_degree[next_c] -= 1
                if in_degree[next_c] == 0:
                    queue.append(next_c)
            results.append(c)
        return results if len(results) == numCourses else []
 ``` 
## Notes
Entry level topological sort.